Knowing the benefits of resource controllers, let's create one for blog posts, open the terminal and
run ppy artisan make controller controller name would be post controller and then other flug dash dash
resource to create our resource controller.
Now let's take a look at their file.
So both controller.
All possible crude actions are already there for us.
Let's see how easy it is to define the roots for this resource controller.
But first, let's come down to the roots with anonymous functions that we already have to handle posts
and online.
Now let's define the rooting for the new controller.
So the root class has the static resource method that accepts two parameters.
First would be the base, your eye and then the class name of the resource controller.
In our case, that's post controller and we use the class Konstanz to get the full class name, including
the namespace.
And just I need to mention that you need to add this statement to import the Post's comptroller.
So it's all it takes to define the whole routine for this resource controller, that's it's it's a one
liner.
Now let's open the terminal and run BHP artisan route, at least.
And here are our roots.
They all have the your eyes that are easy to predict.
Their actions have the Post's prefix in their name.
And also, their names are predictable, and once you remember this convention, you will immediately
find your way around every Laravel project that follows conventions.
But sometimes you don't need all the crude actions for a resource, let's say in our case currently
at least, you can have list of posts or one posts displayed so only are from crude.
You can use only or accept methods on route definition to tell Laravel which of the crude actions you
actually want.
Since we use only two, we will use that only method
and in an array will at least index and show actions.
Now, let's rerun bipartisan at least.
And you can see that for this resource controller, only two actions are on the list.
Now, if you would like to enable most of the actions then you might use, except then you will just
disable certain actions.
So let me rerun artisan route least.
And now you can see that all the other actions were enabled, just those two index and so were disabled.
But of course, currently we want it to be the other way around.
So we use only.
So our current job would be to copy over this post variable somehow to the controller, so let's do
that now.
Select this array.
Copy it in the post controller.
Add a field that would be private.
Now paste the contents.
You can run formating.
There it is, and we have to implement two methods, index and show.
That won't be much different from what we had before.
So we can just copy over the implementation of the index method with the difference that now we don't
refer the variable, instead we refer field, so we have to use this.
I'll post.
And now the action that will return one single blog post.
That would be this show action.
And we apply the same changes, so we refer to posts field of the current class instead of the posts
variable and the radius, that's everything we had to do.
Now let's go to the browser and verify if that still works.
So let's go to the Post's page.
It's fine.
And then to individual post, which also works fine.
Now, in the future, when we will implement other crude actions, we will enable them in routing file
and implement specific methods in the resource controller.